they are about to land on a breeding
beach and each one knows that when he
does he will have to face rivals a
full-grown male weighs over 3 tons half
the world's population will come to this
one island eight thousand to this
feature low this immense gathering of
elephant seals extends to some two miles
of this beach at first sight it might
seem to be totally disorganized but in
fact there's a pattern to it
all these are females they came ashore
about a month ago to pup and now they're
ready to breed again and they all belong
to this one male this is a beach master
and there are a dozen or so like him
spaced out along this Beach each one of
them has his own hari my estimate that
this one has of are the hundred females
in his and his sole object in life at
the moment is to make white northern
here he alone mates with every single
one of them and to that he must fight
you
he's one but you have to battle many
times every day if he is to keep control
the females gave birth soon after they
arrived they now have three weeks in
which to feed their pups before they
themselves have to go back to sea to
feed in that short time they have to
transform a near-empty bag of skin into
a full bag of blubber as they come to
the end of suckling the females become
sexually receptive again that is the
moment that the beachmaster has been
waiting for
but while he is busy arrival is also
busy on the edge of the hurry that can't
be tolerated
a roar is enough interloper retreats
but many conflicts will only be settled
by violence males get ripped and those
that get in the way of the fighters are
likely to get crushed
every now and then the beachmaster
proclaims his dominance with a row the
bigger the ball the louder and deeper
his voice a rival can judge from it
whether or not he has a chance in a
straight line if he's going to persevere
with his challenge he must now fight the
pair we're up to over eight field there
only weapons are their teeth but they
can do a lot of damage
hide on the neck is particularly thick
and prevent serious injury about can go
on for a quarter of an hour eventually
the battle is brought to an end by
exhaustion as much as anything else
you